Well today let's work a little bit more on the upper part of the body here the shoulders the upper arms
that kind of thing.
I'll switch over to sculpt mode and we can see what we've done so far here.
I've got the deltoids and scapula roughed in.
Let's now work on the traps here at the back of the head.
That kind of triangle that happens from the back of the head to the top of the shoulders and over to
the spine.
So what I'll do is all just mask out that area invert the mask and then sculpt again in there.
So I'll switch over to the mask brush and let's zoom in and see if we can mask this area out so that
we can begin sculpting in here.
When I press the F key and reduce the size of the brush a bit I've got the strength of the mask at 100
for now and see how that works and what I want to do is just begin drawing the mask out.
Right down into here.
And may be coming around down here about like this something like this
and then fill it in here
I think that's about right.
I might want to give it a little bit more in here.
There we go.
Now what I'll do is invert the mask I can come down here to hide and invert mask.
And now everything else is masked out and I'll come to the clay strips brush just my brush a bit maybe
change the strength maybe reduce it just a little bit at the beginning here see how I'm doing.
And then come in here and begin sculpting in here to bring this area out of bed.
Kind of bulk it up a bit.
All right.
So now I can work on this neck muscle that comes from kind of the back of the skull and kind of does
another S-curve around the neck down here to the front of the clavicle.
So I will clear the mask here.
And then let's start drawing out.
Another one for that particular muscle.
So I'll reduce my brush a bit.
Zoom in and it usually comes from kind of behind the ear here something like this.
And down along that muscle and forward to the front of the clavicle like that.
I don't want it so high here I can press control and stroke and erase the mask here.
I like that.
All right so when the press control and invert the mask come back over to my clay strips brush with
my three key and then I'll start sculpting in here try and bring this out a bit here we go.
So now we've got that coming around the neck.
I feel like I can build up the trap is Zoids a little bit more here.
So maybe I'll work on that as well.
So I'll hit all at him to clear the mask.
And now I'm going to come back in here and work on the traps just a little bit more.
And I'm also going to cut in just a bit.
And to hear this little dip that happens behind the clavicle and I'm just pressing control to get to
kind of cut in there just a little bit something like that.
I'm a smooth these back just a little bit.
Not a lot but just a little.
Check out the strength of my smooth brush here.
And then press shift and smooth back just a little bit.
Well we've got some sculped information down for the trip there.
The clavicle the deltoids Let's start working on the upper arm here the biceps and triceps.
So once again what I'm going to do is draw in a mask for the bicep that I that I can then use to sculpt
with.
So I'll come back here to the mask tool and for this it's going to insert right in here.
In a kind of a teardrop right into the bottom of the deltoid here.
So I want to go ahead and try and mask this out.
I'll draw it right in here.
Kind of a curve here
pouring it down around in here and it's going to insert down into an in-between the major muscles of
the forearm.
So let me see probably in here
something like that.
All right so now press control and come back to the clay strips brush with the three key and start doing
just a little sculpting here to bring out that form.
All right.
Let's work with that.
I don't want to bring it out too far right now.
Now let's go to the back of the arm and draw out the triceps the triceps are going to be a similar kind
of shape so I'll clear the mask with Allt em and then let's come around here and try and draw that one
out as well.
I'm going to have this one insert pretty far up underneath the deltoids here.
I'll have them kind of meet
right on the side of the arm here just almost and then connect up right there.
Fill these in and I'm going to use the Control key to cut out a place for the elbow here.
So let's invert the mask with control.
I go back to our clay strips and let's start sculpting in here.
Now the last bit of the upper arm here that I want to deal with is just this little muscle right in
between those two.
I believe that's called the Iraqi palace.
But let's clear the mask with all to him and then I'm going to mask it off.
Right in here
just a little bit right in there I don't want to do too much because there's going to be that forearm
muscle that comes through here so I'll just mask this off.
I'll invert the mask with control eye.
And I just want to do a little bit in here to bulk that out slightly naff.
I clear that
I may be able to kind of connect these two a little bit like this.
There we go.
So it kind of fits down in between the bicep and tricep.
All right.
So we're doing pretty well here we've got some good forms for the upper arms and the upper part of the
torso.
I think in the next video we're probably work on the lower arms here and begin thinking about the rest
of the torso.